# itp

## Edythe
### What I did: I created a catch game. It was made with 4 sprites, the main catcher, the mouse, followed by the game element sprites, the donut, taco and the bomb. The game is pretty intuitive with a scoreboard increasing everytime the mouse gets to catch a food item, whereas touching a bomb would deduct a point. 
 
#### How I did it + Problems:  I first thought about what kind of game I wanted to make. I then mapped out what instructions were necessary to create this game. The first step was to figure out how the mouse was going to move left and right. I used loaded up Loop+Conditions from the scratch samples and played around with it. I then switch around some blocks and added the arrow buttons to create a condition to make it move left and right and then looping it. Some problems I started facing here was figuring out how the blocks were going to be placed. The food falling from the top of the screen was a challenge I faced as I was unsure of how to do it, so I looked it up on Youtube and found this video https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7NN5v2wSL4U around 2:20 where they start explaining how to create that falling effect. It was intersting to learn about how to utilize the x and y axis on scratch and how to programme such that it replicates falling. The y axis is actually around 180 from the top and -180 from the bottom. So first you create go to random position and set y to 180 so that your item spawns randomly from the top. Then, to create the falling effect, you then go to motion and select change and create a negative value so that it falls. A condition also should be created so that if “it falls below the y axis at -180 it spawns back up to the top (the same code as what was used earlier) Finally, another condition is created where whenever the item touches the mouse, a sound is played and also the same theory as spawning the item back to the top. The score, which is a variable, is also added into the condition. 

